And once that project is pulled,
You'll go to the unity hub.
And you can either click Open here, or
you can choose this little arrow
here if you want a few more options.
So I would say Add project from disk.
And I'll go to my Development folder,
go into the folder for the repo, and
then go into the Start folder.
And mine will look a little bit different,
because I've already opened it up and
Unity has generated a few metafiles.
So your start project will
have a few less folders there.
And then you would hit Add Project.
So I've already done that.
And I already have it
listed in the hub here.
And you'll see that when you have
projects listed in the Unity hub,
I'm actually going to click this,
so it starts opening.
But when you have projects
listed in the Unity hub,
you can choose the editor
version that it opens up with.
So if I click that, it will bring up
all of the different versions that I
could potentially open the project with,
and
also the platform that I
can open the project with.
So I've opened that up and
I'll go ahead and zoom in on this window.
And when you first open it up,
it should look something like this,
you should have the same folders
here in the project window.
You might not have this scene open,
I'll get get into how to open that up,
but generally this is
what it should look like.
So, Let's go back slides here.
And before we get into the project,
I wanna give you a brief tour of
the Unity interface,
because there's a lot of stuff there,
it's kinda like sitting down at
the cockpit of a spatial or something.
There's just all these buttons and
menus and tabs and windows, and
it can be really overwhelming
the first time that you look at it.
But the key idea here is that
this interface is rearrangeable.
So like many modern interfaces,
it's comprised of these windows and
tabs, and you can move them
around however you'd like.
And that's very useful
in game development.
Just as an example, if you're
developing a game for phones, and
it's a game that's meant to
be played in portrait mode.
It might be useful to
have your scene view and
game view kind of in that more elongated
portrait mode, I guess, aspect ratio.
And so yeah, rearranging these
windows is really useful,
it's something I do all the time.
And you can actually save layouts for
different projects that
you might be working on.
So let's get into a brief interface tour.
So I'll jump back to Unity.
And something that you may wanna do
right now, if you've opened this up and
you're a little bit confused,
is go to the upper right here
where it says Layout, and
you can just choose Default.
So if you ever rearrange your windows and
you're trying to get back to
how things were, so I'll just kinda
drag some things around here.
And if you've accidentally dragged
stuff all over the place and so much so
that even the console's spitting out
errors, you don't know how to get back.
You can always just go back
up to the upper right here,
choose the default layout, and
it will take you right back.
So we've got a couple of windows
here that are open by default.
And the first one that you'll probably
notice more than any other is this big
scene view right in the middle.
So the scene view, as the name implies,
is how you navigate scenes in Unity.
Scenes are assets that hold all
of the stuff that's in your game.
So all of the things that are in your 3D
game world are going to be present and
visible in the scene view.
And if you hold down on a Mac option or
on Windows Alt,
and then drag around in the scene view,
you can orbit the camera, and
kind of take a look around.
And, If you use
the gizmo in the upper right here,
you can also kind of orbit
the camera just by clicking on the x,
y, and z or widgets there.
And if you don't have the main scene open,
you might have a default scene open.
You can come down to
the project window here, and
you should see a folder called Scenes.
I'm actually going to drag this little
slider down at the bottom here, so
I get a list view.
So that's what I prefer.
Go to the Scenes folder and
you should see a file called main.unity,
that is a scene file.
And if you double click that,
I already have it open, but
it will open up the main scene, which is
where we're going to be working today.
So we've talked about the scene view.
The project view is basically
just a file browser.
So it gives you a window into all of
the stuff that's in your project.
And this project has a few starter assets.
So I've got an input assets that
we'll use for driving player input.
There's some materials here
that we can click on and
get a look at over here in the inspector,
which we'll talk about in a second.
There's the Scenes folder,
which has the main scene.
There's a Scripts folder, it already has a
script in it, that we'll also get to, but
that's where we're going to be putting
all of our C# scripts as we develop.
There are a few default settings.
We have what's called
the Universal Render Pipeline,
which is the pipeline
that is best used for,
really, I would say anything, actually.
There's a few other render pipelines
that are for more specific purposes, but
the Universal Render Pipeline,
as the name implies, is great for
just about any application.
And then we also have a few textures here.
So there's some stuff in
our project window already.
And it's just kind of a detail view there.
You can click on the folders here and
you can see what's in your project.
Now, you may have noticed,
when I was clicking on these things,
that I'm getting more information about
each one of these in this window on
the right here called the inspector.
The inspector allows you to see
more details about assets and
GameObjects in your project.
So when I click through
these different materials,
I can see their various properties.
And then I can also see
a preview of this material.
And I can actually orbit this 3D view and
take a look at this material in more
detail in kind of a default lighting or
default environment here, just kinda nice.
On the left side,
we have what's called the hierarchy.
The hierarchy lists all of the GameObjects
that are in any open scenes.
And I do say scenes plural,
you can have multiple scenes open, and
they will be listed out in the hierarchy.
We're only going to be working
in one scene today, just for
the sake of simplicity.
But you could potentially have multiple
scenes here that are collapsible.
And then the hierarchy, it is called
the hierarchy because GameObjects can be
nested underneath one another.
So we have basically a parent-child
relationship here, or a tree,
which if you're a web developer
should be pretty familiar to you,
it's almost like the DOM, right?
And in the scene,
I have a few GameObjects, I have a camera,
I have a light, and
I have what's called an event system.
But really,
those names are almost misnomers,
because these are just all GameObjects.
They all inherit from the same class.
But they have these things called
components attached to them,
which drives their behavior.
So we'll get more into
the GameObject scene,
component relationship in a little bit.
So if this is sounding a little confusing,
we'll expand on that soon.
So a few other windows that
are important to be aware of.
Just like the scene view, we also have
another 3D view called the game view.
Right now,
there's nothing in the game view,
because we don't have anything in our
scene other than this Skybox here.
But the main camera is actually set to
just have a solid colored background,
which is black.
But the game view renders
what this camera is seeing.
So it's kind of a preview of what
your game is going to look like.
And there's a few useful
additional buttons up here,
such as the resolution drop-down.
So right now,
it's just in three aspects, so
it will conform the game to whatever
aspect ratio my game view is in.
But if you were, say,
working on a console game and
you knew it was going to be deployed to
televisions, you would want to use 16:9.
Or even a specific resolution like 4K, so
that you knew exactly what
everything was going to look like,
how everything was gonna be framed,
how the UI would show up, and so forth.
But I'm just gonna leave
this on free aspect for now.
There is the console window down
here next to the project window.
And this will show you various errors,
warnings, debug output.
Hopefully we don't need the console window
today, we don't hit any errors, but
if errors do come up,
that's where they'll be visible.
And it's surprising how great Unity is
at having really good error messages.
You can double-click these, dig into
the lines where you're having a problem,
and usually get pretty good information
about what's going on in your scripts.
And then right here at the top,
maybe the most important part of
the interface is a Play button.
So the really cool thing about developing
in Unity is that you don't need
to compile your game every
time you want to test it out.
You can just work on scripts.
You can change things in the inspector,
you can add and remove GameObjects,
whatever, and you can hit the Play button.
And right now,
it's going to do nothing at all,
the game is actually playing, but
we don't have anything in the game.
But if we did, you would actually
be able to get a preview here, and
it would look just like the WebGL
preview that I showed you.
It looks exactly like what your game is
going to look like when it's built and
deployed.
So that is kind of a whirlwind
tour of the Unity interface.
There's a lot more to learn here, but
I'm going to let you
explore that on your own.
You can come up to the Window menu here
and see some of the other windows,
the ones that I showed were just
under the General tab here.
So we covered the scene, game,
inspector, hierarchy, project,
console window, but
there's also windows for
exploring all of the lights in your game
and digging into animation and audio.
There are all kinds of debugging and
profiling and analysis for
digging into the performance
characteristics of your game.
So there's a lot here, but these
are really just the main windows that
even as a professional you're gonna
be working with all the time.
So probably the most important
tip that I covered there,
if you take one thing away from that,
is if you get lost, in the upper right,
you can choose the default layout if you
wanna just get back to where you started.
So just to recap all of that really quick.
Again, we have the scene view,
which is the 3D view of all of
the GameObjects in the currently
open scenes, plural.
There's the game view,
which is a preview of the game camera.
The hierarchy is a list of all of the
GameObjects that are in the current scene.
There's the inspector, which is
a detail-view of the currently selected
GameObject or
the currently selected asset.
The project window is a file browser for
the currently open Unity project.
The console outputs from scripts and
shows you debug information and errors.
And then the Play button at the very
top runs your game in the Unity Editor